Newsletters: add 146 (2021-04-28) (#561)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2021-04-28-newsletter.md

    ([RBF][topic rbf]) to full RBF, improving coordination of security
    response between primarily onchain projects such as full nodes and
    primarily offchain projects like LN nodes, and defining what mempool
    and relay policies can be reasonably depended upon by layer two
    protocols.  Riard also asks for additional topic suggestions from
    anyone planning to attend, with May 7th being the deadline for
    submissions.  The workshop will likely be held mid June.

- **Support for ECDSA signature adaptors added to libsecp256k1-zkp:**
  [signature adaptors][topic adaptor signatures] were originally
  described for Bitcoin by Andrew Poelstra using [schnorr][topic
  schnorr signatures]-based [multisignatures][topic multisignature].
  This allows a single signature to do up to three things at once: (1)
  prove its creator had access to a certain private key, (2) prove
  knowledge of an encryption key pre-selected by another party, (3)
  reveal a pre-selected encryption key to another party.  This allows a
  signature alone to do many of the things we currently do with Bitcoin
  scripts, suggesting adaptor signatures could be used as "scriptless

>   script".

Reviewer: s/script/scripts/ ?

    Accomplishing the same on ECDSA is not as easy.  However, Lloyd
    Fournier [suggested][fournier otves] it would be relatively simple
    if we separated goal #1 (proof of private key) from goals #2 and #3
    (proving and revealing encryption keys, AKA adaptors).  This
    requires using one signature object as just a signature and another
    signature object for the adaptors, so it uses `OP_CHECKMULTISIG` and
    is not quite as scriptless as before.  It also requires a [security
    warning][ecdh warning] related to reusing some of the involved keys
    with Elliptic Curve Diffie Hellman (ECDH) key exchange and ElGamal

>     encryption   Beyond that, it makes signature adaptors entirely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    encryption.  Beyond that, it makes signature adaptors entirely
```
Also, it may be clearer to replace "it" here with a specific subject.

    usable on Bitcoin today, and it's what various [DLC][topic dlc]
    projects have been using.

    In April 2020, Jonas Nick implemented support for these simplified
    ECDSA signature adaptors in a draft PR (see [Newsletter #92][news92
    ecdsa adaptor]).  Jesse Posner [ported][libsecp256k1-zkp #117] and
    extended the PR to libsecp256k1-zkp, a fork of libsecp256k1 that

>     supports more advanced cryptographic protocols.  This updated PR has

Reviewer: Maybe link to each of the two libsecp repos mentioned here.

Author: Good idea in general, but I don't think we need a link to -zkp right after we linked to a PR in that repo, and if we don't link -zkp, then I think linking original libsecp looks weird.  :man_shrugging:

  discussions were started on the mailing list about adding a [new BIPs
  editor][dashjr alm], using a [bot][corallo bot] to merge BIPs PRs, or
  abandoning the [centralized BIPs repository][corallo ignore repo]
  altogether.

## Selected Q&A from Bitcoin StackExchange

*[Bitcoin StackExchange][bitcoin.se] is one of the first places Optech
contributors look for answers to their questions---or when we have a
few spare moments to help curious or confused users.  In
this monthly feature, we highlight some of the top-voted questions and
answers posted since our last update.*

{% comment %}<!-- https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/search?tab=votes&q=created%3a1m..%20is%3aanswer -->{% endcomment %}
{% assign bse = "https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/" %}

FIXME:bitschmidty

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

- [Bitcoin Core 0.21.1rc1][Bitcoin Core 0.21.1] is a release candidate
  for a version of Bitcoin Core that, if activated, will enforce the
  rules of the proposed [taproot][topic taproot] soft fork, which uses

>   [schnorr signatures][topic schnorr signatures] and allows use of

Reviewer: maybe
```suggestion
  [schnorr signatures][topic schnorr signatures] and allows the use of
```

  such as taproot.  The
  release additionally includes bug fixes and minor improvements.

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo],
[C-Lightning][c-lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LND][lnd repo],
[Rust-Lightning][rust-lightning repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1
repo], [Hardware Wallet Interface (HWI)][hwi repo],
[Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay Server][btcpay server repo],
[Bitcoin Improvement Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning
BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #21595][] cli: create -addrinfo FIXME:jnewbery

- [Rust-Lightning #844][] Adds lightning message signing/verification/pk_recovery FIXME:dongcarl

- [BTCPay Server #2356][] adds support for multifactor authentication
  using the [WebAuthN/FIDO2][] protocols.  Existing multifactor
  authentication in BTCPay using [U2F][] continues to work.

- [Libsecp256k1 #906][] reduces the number of iterations needed to
  compute modular inverses from 724 to 590 when using a constant-time
  algorithm that should be more resistant to side-channel attacks than a
  variable-time algorithm.  The correctness of the algorithm was checked

>   using the Coq proof assistant, with the most strict verification

Reviewer: perhaps link Coq to https://coq.inria.fr/

       with locktimes up to two hours in the future by lying about the
       current time, as fixed in [BIP113][bip113 spec]

- [Can Taproot be used to commit arbitrary data to chain without any additional footprint?]({{bse}}105346)
  Pieter Wuille answers by pointing out that while committing to data via
  `OP_RETURN` in a [tapleaf][news46 complex spending] is possible, techniques
  like [pay-to-contract][pay-to-contract se] and
  [sign-to-contract][sign-to-contract blog] are in use currently by Liquid and
  [OpenTimestamps][opentimestamps] and can be more efficient.

- [Why does the mined block differ so much from the block template?]({{bse}}105694)
  User Andy asks why block 680175 differs from what his `getblocktemplate` RPC
  had output around the same time that block was mined. Andrew Chow and Murch
  point out [Asicboost][asicboost se] as the reason the version field is
  different, while node-independent mempools and node uptime are considerations
  of the block's transaction discrepancies.

- [Isn't Bitcoin's hash target supposed to be a power of 2?]({{bse}}105618)
  Andrew Chow explains the 'leading zeros' explanation of difficulty

>   targeting is an oversimplification and chytrik gives an example to illustrate
>   where of two hashes with the same number of leading zeros, only one is valid.

Reviewer 2: It took me a couple of passes to parse this part. Maybe something like:
```suggestion
  targeting is an oversimplification and chytrik gives an example of
  a valid and invalid hash with the same number of leading zeros.
```

  signmessage rpc].

- [BTCPay Server #2356][] adds support for multifactor authentication
  using the [WebAuthN/FIDO2][] protocols.  Existing multifactor
  authentication in BTCPay using [U2F][] continues to work.

- [Libsecp256k1 #906][] reduces the number of iterations needed to
  compute modular inverses from 724 to 590 when using a constant-time
  algorithm that should be more resistant to side-channel attacks than a
  variable-time algorithm.  The correctness of the algorithm was checked
  using the [Coq proof assistant][coq], with the most strict verification
  taking approximately 66 days of runtime.  See [Newsletter #136][news136
  safegcd] for more information about the algorithmic advance that led
  to this improvement.

{% include references.md %}
{% include linkers/issues.md issues="21595,844,2356,906,863,192" %}
[bitcoin core 0.21.1]: https://bitcoincore.org/bin/bitcoin-core-0.21.1/
[webauthn/fido2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIDO2_Project
[u2f]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_2nd_Factor
[russell splicing post]: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/lightning-dev/2021-April/002999.html

> [russell old splice]: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/lightning-dev/2018-October/001434.html

Reviewer 2: russell old splice -- the deodorant for _real_ bitcoiners.

  editor][dashjr alm], using a [bot][corallo bot] to merge BIPs PRs, or
  abandoning the [centralized BIPs repository][corallo ignore repo]
  altogether.

## Selected Q&A from Bitcoin StackExchange

*[Bitcoin StackExchange][bitcoin.se] is one of the first places Optech
contributors look for answers to their questions---or when we have a
few spare moments to help curious or confused users.  In
this monthly feature, we highlight some of the top-voted questions and
answers posted since our last update.*

{% comment %}<!-- https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/search?tab=votes&q=created%3a1m..%20is%3aanswer -->{% endcomment %}
{% assign bse = "https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/" %}

- [What are the different contexts where MTP is used in Bitcoin?]({{bse}}105109)
  David A. Harding defines Median Time Past (MTP) and outlines how MTP is used
  to:

    1. determine the validity of a block using its `nTime` field, controlling
       difficulty adjustment period times

    2. ensure that time only moves forward, simplifying [state transitions][bip9
       state] in BIP9

    3. ensure more reliable locktime calculations used by BIP65

>        (CHECKLOCKTIMEVERIFY) as defined in [BIP113][bip113 spec]

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the review and clarifications  @harding !
